Transformation helpers (#138)
BioPhoton/rx-angular: libs/state/docs/api/transformation-helpers/array/remove.md

> # removeRemoves one or multiple items from array T[].You can provide a custom comparison function that should return true if items match.If no comparison is provided, an equality check is used by default.Returns new updated array T[].Not mutating original array._Example_```TypeScript// Removing value without comparison functionconst items = [1,2,3,4,5];const updatedItems = insert(items, [1,2,3]);// updatedItems will be: [4,5];```_Example_```TypeScript// Removing values with comparison functionconst creatures = [{id: 1, type: 'cat'}, {id: 2, type: 'unicorn'}, {id: 3, type: 'kobold'}];const nonExistingCreatures = [{id: 2, type: 'unicorn'}, {id: 3, type: 'kobold'}];const realCreatures = remove(creatures, nonExistingCreatures, (a, b) => a.id === b.id);// realCreatures will be: [{id: 1, type: 'cat'}];```## Signature```TypeScriptfunction remove<T, I extends T>(array: T[], itemsOrItem: I[] | I, compare?: CompareFn<T>): T[]```## Parameters### array##### typeof: T[]### itemsOrItem##### typeof: I[] | I### compare##### typeof: CompareFn&#60;T&#62;

Author: ```suggestion
# remove

Removes one or multiple items from array T[].
You can provide a custom comparison function that should return true if items match.
If no comparison is provided, an equality check is used by default.
Returns new updated array T[].
Not mutating original array.

_Example_

```TypeScript
// Removing value without comparison function

const items = [1,2,3,4,5];

const updatedItems = remove(items, [1,2,3]);

// updatedItems will be: [4,5];
```

_Example_

```TypeScript
// Removing values with comparison function

const creatures = [{id: 1, type: 'cat'}, {id: 2, type: 'unicorn'}, {id: 3, type: 'kobold'}];

const nonExistingCreatures = [{id: 2, type: 'unicorn'}, {id: 3, type: 'kobold'}];

const realCreatures = remove(creatures, nonExistingCreatures, (a, b) => a.id === b.id);

// realCreatures will be: [{id: 1, type: 'cat'}];
```

## Signature

```TypeScript
function remove<T, I extends T>(array: T[], itemsOrItem: I[] | I, compare?: CompareFn<T>): T[]
```

## Parameters

### array

##### typeof: T[]

### itemsOrItem

##### typeof: I[] | I

### compare

##### typeof: CompareFn&#60;T&#62;

```
